# Good Morning! It's TUESDAY, July 8, 2025.

Progress [#---------]

## Getting into your Virtual Machines

[https://class.hypertheory-labs.com/guacamole/#](https://class.hypertheory-labs.com/guacamole/#)

The first (Guacamole) login is:

- User Name: Student*X* (where X is your assigned student number)
- Password: Hypertheory_Training!

The second (black screen) is:

- Username: student (no number)
- Password: The password you changed to yesterday morning
- Domain: Leave blank

## Today

Review how to reset your code with mine.

Review of yesterday.

Write a System Test for the API `GET /links` endpoint.

Come up with a "testing strategy" - how will we have confidence it works?

### Later

Transition to the C# *death march*.

## Your Notes From Yesterday

I need seven bullet points here. 

- Problems with Monoliths
    - "Independently deployable services". "Distributed Monolith" 
- .NET runs in a "managed execution environment" called the "Runtime". .NET apps compile to "Intermediate Language" (IL).
    - you need a runtime to run a .net application.
    - you don't need a runtime to run a .net application *if you compile it natively*.
        - Natively compiled applications *start faster* but must be compiled for a specific OS/Processor architecture.
- Networks and file system access are literally *orders of magnitude* slower than other operations within a process.
    - I/O (input output) bound applications performance is almost entirely dependent on the speed of I/O.
    - You as a developer can't do much about that.
- Using HTTP files in Visual Studio and VS Code.
- With Visual Studio - Solutions aren't a code thing, they are an organization thing. Projects are `*.csproj` files, which are a maven, gradle, cargo.toml
- Any Keyboard Shortcuts?
    - Running your stuff in Visual Studio (or VS Code)
        - Ctrl+F5 - start without debugging
        - F5 - Start with debugging.
    - Run all your tests. (Ctrl+R,A)
    - Debug all your tests (Ctrl+R, Ctrl-A)
    - Ctrl+. - The best. Use it everywhere. "Show Action or Fix"